unless you're allergic bees aren't
usually life-threatening
but that's just about normal bees as for
the africanized bees
which is a result of crossbreeding the
european honeybee with the east african
honeybee
they can do some real damage even if
you're not allergic
the africanized bee also known as the
killer bee
is more defensive than other honeybee
species which usually only sting as a
last resort
killer bees react to any kind of threat
much quicker than other
bees and swarm together to protect their
hive
meaning that a person can receive up to
10 times more stings than with typical
bees
these super aggressive buzzers have been
known to chase down their victims for up
to a quarter of a mile
and they've taken their fair share of
victims both human and animal
maybe we shouldn't crossbreed any more
venomous creatures eh
didn't really turn out too good this
time around
speaking of bees another airborne
attacker is the hornet
hornets can be aggressive at the
slightest provocation but just imagine a
japanese
giant hornet coming after you their
sting is so painful
that it will send you straight to the
hospital even if you're not allergic
the stings can still be fatal if enough
venom is injected
and if you do have an allergy well it's
not your day
anaphylactic shock is ahead getting
stung 10 times
guarantees that a person will need
medical attention
in the rare but possible case of being
stung more than 30 times
a patient will require emergency medical
treatment the painful venomous sting can
cause kidney failure
which means death if not treated hmm
i wonder if their honey is any good has
anybody gotten close enough to check
one more flying terror is the titsy fly
these pesky bloodsuckers are the largest
african flies
and inhabit the more tropical areas of
the continent
like some of the other parasites that
rely on drinking blood for survival
the titsy fly can transfer a dangerous
disease to people called
human sleeping sickness no it doesn't
help you sleep at night
in the first stage of the disease people
experience flu-like symptoms including
fever and headaches only after weeks or
even a few months
does the second stage begin with
confusion numbness
and problems with nighttime sleep the
good news is that treatment and
intervention
has reduced the fatality rate
tremendously from around 34 000 people
in 1990
to 3500 in 2015 and this number
continues to drop
the plant ominously nicknamed corpse
flower
is actually quite pretty to look at it's
a huge green flower
rising up to 10 feet as tall as a brown
bear on its hind paws
still you aren't likely to marvel at its
beauty for long
because it emits a powerful smell of rot
flies and other insects of not very
discriminating tastes
love this odor and pollinate the plant
with gusto
i'll perfectly understand it if you run
away screaming from all this stinking
nightmare
but remember this the trees have ears
too and they'll hear your cries
aura calaria is yet another species of
fungi that look like human body parts
only this time it's ears these are jelly
mushrooms that grow on trees
and feed on them a grown-up fungus takes
the shape
eerily resembling a human ear attached
to a tree trunk
at a closer look though it's darker and
more translucent
even more you can safely cut a dozen of
them off the tree
and take them home to cook these shrooms
are safe to eat
ear soup anyone what you definitely
don't want to eat looks ironically like
a tooth
it's name would tell you as much though
it's a bleeding tooth fungus
it doesn't look appetizing either a
white jelly like stub
with blood red liquid oozing from its
pores
don't let the name or looks confuse you
the mushroom got its name for the
tooth-like protrusions on its skin
on which it grows its spores and the
liquid is in many ways
similar to tree sap the fungus secretes
it when it takes
too much water from the soil although no
one still knows its purpose
as for not wanting to eat it well it's
not poisonous
it's just really bad tasting unlike the
white bainberry which just happens to be
another organ-like plant
it's probably not as scary as the rest
of what i've already told you
but still a shrub named doll's eyes
is bound to give you the creeps it's a
green plant that has tall
red stalks on its top which are
decorated with numerous white bearings
what makes it eerie is that each berry
has a black
dot in the center making the whole
structure look like some creepy eyeball
tree
if you're not frightened off by its
looks though don't even think of trying
out one of the eyes
they're highly toxic and a single berry
can easily bring down even a completely
healthy person
hey look what's that black thing over
there is that a bat
oh no it's just another flower but it's
name is telling
the black bat flower in the lush
rainforest of the tropics
it's quite easy to mistake this eerie
bloom for a real bat
especially in the twilight however many
people seem to take some morbid liking
to this plant
growing it in their personal gardens as
a scarecrow perhaps
what gardeners don't like in their
backyards is the cedar apple rust fungus
it isn't only harmful for the cedars
hence the name
but it also looks quite repulsive it
starts as a blemish on the leaves of a
tree
and it isn't easy to recognize it at
first but
very soon it grows into a brownish
yellow pod
that continues to increase in size until
it's grown enough to start sprouting
and that's the most repugnant stage the
brown
pod begins pushing out orange tentacles
making the thing look like some exotic
fruit
soon the sprouts which have a jelly-like
texture
cover more and more of the pod and hang
from the branch like an orange mutant
octopus in addition they react to the
humidity of the air
shrinking when it's too dry for comfort
and swelling when it's wet
this snail is so dangerous that one drop
of its venom
is more than enough to end 20 human
lives
the worst thing about it is there is no
cure or some kind of antidote
if it stings you you are dead whatever
you do
it is also known as the cigarette snail
because its poison kills you as fast as
it takes you to finish one cigarette
hopefully you don't smoke so that you'll
have time for something more important
this thing looks like a stone see now
there are two things you need to know
about this fish
first if you confuse it with a rock and
step on its spikes
it will poison you and you will lose
your leg that's actually the best case
scenario
the stone fish is very economical it
injects the amount of poison
proportional to the pressing weight
the second thing is it takes the
stonefish just 0.15 seconds to react to
a moving object
another fish or your leg to open its
mouth and bite it
so losing a leg is really possible so
watch your step whenever you are in the
ocean
this kind of bee is very different from
all others because
africanized honey bees are actually a
result of an experiment
a brazilian man was trying to make a new
breed of bees
and actually let them out so these bees
are more aggressive than regular bees
maybe because they know they were
genetically engineered and are
pissed off about it and they can chase
their victims for very long distances
their poison is not more dangerous than
the one that normally
more friendly bees have but if you get
stung by a large number of them
you should see a doctor anyway
do you know why the most venomous spider
in the world is called
wandering spider the thing is that
unlike other spiders
it is often found in places full of
people especially in the daytime
you can find them in houses or even in
cars now we wonder how ron weasley would
react to such nukes
you may have heard about this snake its
name is pretty popular
quentin tarantino gave this code name to
the main character and kill bill
now this snake is known as the most
aggressive snake of all
you know usually experts say that when
you see a snake
the best course of action is to move
away from the snake as slowly as you can
otherwise it might think you are a
threat and attack you
which is probably the last thing you
want to happen however
black mamba is very different it can
attack you even without provocation
some people think that it kind of enjoys
it anyways
if it bites a person and he or she
doesn't get an antidote in the next 30
to 50 minutes
they will die the poison shuts down the
nervous system
and paralyzes the victim thank goodness
this tree is really easy to recognize so
that you'll know to stay
far away from it it can reach heights of
130 feet
its trunk is covered with cone-shaped
spikes
and its fruit looks like mini pumpkins
every part of this tree is dangerous to
people if you get its sap in your eyes
blindness can become a frighteningly
real possibility
if you accidentally eat the fruit your
body will have an almost instant
reaction with cramps
vomiting and diarrhea
and if all that isn't enough to keep you
at a distance
when the fruit matures it becomes dark
brown and explodes
shooting seeds a whopping 150 miles per
hour in all directions
you can imagine what a serious injury
that could cause if you ever get in the
way of these organic
bullets this might come as a surprise
but there's no mistake here cherry trees
can be extremely dangerous
especially for small children and dogs
the
cherry trees relatives include peach
plum
apricot choc cherry and other trees of
this kind
all of them release particular chemicals
that later metabolize into cyanide
if we talk about cherry trees in
particular you can find these chemicals
throughout the plant
especially in high concentrations on
fallen and wilted leaves
if a child or dog eats just one or two
of this tree's leaves
they'll suffer from a horrible
stomachache
and if they eat more than that they'll
most likely end up with
cyanide poisoning so if you notice
symptoms like weak pulse
seizures dark urine and gums and
difficulties breathing
call for help immediately cyanide
poisoning can easily
and quickly become fatal this is one
more tree we bet you never suspected of
presenting any sort of danger
but in fact it's quite a threat
all parts of the ohio buckeye tree
contain saponins which are chemicals
that depress the central nervous system
little kids as well as pets love playing
with the brown
shiny buckeye nuts that fall onto the
ground
just make sure that your little ones
don't put them in their mouths
if children or dogs eat or chew on
buckeyes they'll most likely suffer from
vomiting and diarrhea
[Music]
pets may have trouble breathing or start
to stagger and shake
if you have an ohio buckeye tree near
your house your best and safest bet
is to pick up all the nuts and twigs and
keep them out of your kids and
pets reach imagine lying on a beach and
seeing a fish
climbing out of the water next to you
stretching its fishy limbs
and going about its fishy business
without actually returning
as a climbing perch for you these
critters can switch from gills to lungs
to breathe
and can live without returning to water
for up to six days
and of course they need food so they
hunt for insects on land as well
where else there's one more disturbing
feature though
when a bird or an animal tries to eat a
climbing perch
it spreads its gills blocking the
predator's airways
so it's kind of a lose-lose
there's a species of catfish living in
the tarn river in france
that has adapted to hunting pigeons
walking along the banks
catfish are known to grow to huge sizes
if left unchecked
but interestingly only the middle-sized
fish hunt on land for some reason
it might be so because the bigger ones
just can't come close enough
and be able to go back to the water with
their prey strangers still there are no
other catfish species known for this
hunting style
hunting on land doesn't necessarily mean
actually going there
archer fish have developed an ingenious
way to get to its insect prey above
water
without even showing up by shooting it
with a stream of water
a fly sitting peacefully on a tree
branch hanging above a pond
won't even know what hit it when an
archer fish spits at it
and then it's engulfed in water falling
down to be inevitably eaten
if silver arowana in south america was
as large as say
a shark we'd all be in trouble this
incredible fish can jump
twice its own body length out of the
water to get its prey
and does it so fast that even snakes
have no chance of getting away from its
jaws
in fact they love eating land dwellers
so much
that they don't even pay attention to
other fish especially those swimming
lower than them
and now the horror tiger sharks
which are among the fiercest ocean
predators can hunt land animals too
okay well not quite they sometimes eat
migratory birds flying over their
territories
and they don't even need to leap out of
the water for that
birds like woodpeckers and meadowlarks
become blinded and confused by oil rigs
at night
and fall into the water where sharks are
happy to pick them up for lunch
so no need to worry about tiger sharks
stalking the shores
african tiger fish will eat whatever it
finds and given its own size and that of
its monstrous teeth
you can imagine it finds a lot of food
it mostly feeds on other fish
but when nutrition is scarce it can jump
out of the water and catch both
insects and small birds right in the
middle of the flight
it's not so big as to eat a human of
course but the name should warn you that
it can
easily take a bite out of your arm or
leg
meet the living fossil the lung fish
it's been around for 400 million years
and has changed only a little there are
several species of this creature
all living in distinct parts of the
world but they have one thing in common
you probably guessed it ears now lungs
lung fish can breathe underwater using
its gills and crawl onto land and do
whatever fish do
for days on end there and of course it
can feed on land animals
in fact lungfish are omnivores meaning
they eat everything from
insects to other fish to roots and
plants
share a canthium inclusium or simply
yellow
sac is a spider with a yellow beige
abdomen
its size ranges from .11 inches to 0.39
inches
and it is considered to be responsible
for the majority of bites in the world
needless to say its bites are quite
painful and its venom is necrotic
it basically damages and kills skin
tissue
as a result your skin begins to itch and
swell
as for their hunting technique they're
not content with just catching their
prey within a web
they actually hunt for them at night
time thankfully
they don't necessarily want to be around
people but
you might come across them while
gardening or when in their preferred
habitat
if you want to minimize any chances of
meeting a yellow sack
be sure to seal all of the holes cracks
and gaps in your home's doors
windows and foundations now those yellow
sacks
definitely won't get you it's not hard
to recognize the red back spider
latrodictus
has celti it has a black body with a
bright red stripe on the upper side of
its abdomen
if you live in australia southeast asia
or new zealand
you have a good chance of running into
it don't worry though
red back spiders aren't naturally
aggressive and
usually don't attack people on the spot
unless they're provoked
however they are still responsible for
the majority of serious spider bites in
australia
it's female redbacks you should stay
away from since the males are way too
tiny to seriously harm anyone
females can reach a size of 0.39 inches
and their venom is extremely toxic
it affects your system slowly causing
severe pain
nausea and muscle weakness if you are
bitten
use an ice pack for first aid and visit
the hospital
right away the chinese bird spider
or cryopagopus schmidty is one of the
largest asian spiders to be found in
china
where it tops the list of the most
venomous spiders and vietnam
it has a dark yellow brown body and
reaches around 8 inches in size
chinese bird spiders usually live in
burrows and emerge
only to find prey their venom is called
neurotoxin
and it makes the spiders victims
incapable of moving
plus it's so deadly that even minimal
doses of it can be enough for small
mammals
chinese bird spiders aren't big fans of
people either
if disturbed they will act aggressively
and bite you
if this happens go to the hospital as
quickly as you can
if left untreated a chinese bird
spider's bite can lead to all kinds of
awful consequences
laxo's kelly's reclusa also known as the
brown recluse spider
is one of the most poisonous spiders in
the entire world
these guys reach up to .79 inches and
love to hide in dark and warm places
especially behind furniture
well we don't know about you but we're
definitely checking all the corners of
our house
right after this video anyway brown
recluse spider venom is necrotic and can
easily destroy the walls of blood
vessels near the bite
a victim may end up developing an ulcer
on their skin that can take a couple of
months to heal
in the most severe cases the bite can
become infected
and as you can probably guess it won't
be pretty
so the best course of action would be to
wash the bite with soap as soon as
possible
elevate the bitten area apply a cold
compress
and visit the doctor immediately
while we're on the topic of recluse
spiders let's meet another one
loxo skelly's later or the chilean
recluse spider
these guys usually reach one and a half
inches in size
and like to chill out in south america
chile
peru argentina and brazil in general
chilean recluse spiders don't show any
particular signs of aggression toward
people
nevertheless they can bite when pressed
against human skin
after that possible symptoms may vary
from simple skin irritation to death of
skin and other cells
don't forget that a first aid kit should
include an ice pack and aloe vera
which will be useful for the bite these
measures will help to at least relieve
the pain
while on the way to the hospital